Add dio_chacon integration documentation (#32485)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/dio_chacon.markdown

---
title: Dio Chacon
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Dio Chacon devices within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Cover
ha_release: 2024.5
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@cnico'
ha_domain: dio_chacon
ha_platforms:
  - cover
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> [Dio Chacon devices](https://chacon.com/en/) are connected home devices that can be controlled via RF 433 Mhz or Wifi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dio Chacon devices](https://chacon.com/en/) are connected home devices that can be controlled via RF 433 MHz or Wi-Fi
```

> This integration gives you access to the Wifi connection that allows in Home Assistant to list your devices and interact with them in real time like vendor's smartphone application does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This {% term integrations %} gives you access to the Wi-Fi connection so that Home Assistant can list your Chacon Dio devices and interact with them in real time, the same way the vendor's smartphone application does.
```

There is currently support for the following information within Home Assistant:

> - Cover devices (get statuses, moves up, down, stop and moves to a given percentage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cover devices (get statuses, move up, down, stop, and move to a given percentage)
```

## Prerequisites

You will need to use the standalone app for this device to register a username and password.

- [Google](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.chacon.dioone)

> - [Apple](https://apps.apple.com/fr/app/dio-one/id1493503504)

Reviewer: This link points to the French app store. Is is available in France only? Otherwise, it should be in English.

Author: I updated the links to point to english versions of the stores pages.
I do not think there are differents applications per country.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Tips

You can use any Cover card like the great custom [hass-shutter-card](https://github.com/Deejayfool/hass-shutter-card) from Deejayfool.

> A reload_state service is available in the integration. It may be useful not to have to restart your Home Assistant instance to force a refresh of the devices statuses (ex : cover moved during a wifi lost period).

Reviewer: It looks like this service is no longer part of the code. Please remove this line.

Author: Done
